hello everyone it's dolena and i'm back
with another video and just before
anybody points it out to me in the
comments yes I do know that there's kind
of a white dot on my nose and that's
because I fell and it really really
hurts
and I don't know why but apparently blue
and red undertones make your makeup seem
a lot lighter I don't know but that's
why my nose looks pretty weird today but
trust me it looks a lot better than it
does about makeup because it looks
pretty bad and I'm just hoping that it's
not gonna scar so yeah that's why I have
a white dot but today we're actually
going to talk about a really important
topic so please just ignore my white
thought because I'm actually really
important to talk about academic failure
because everybody fails at some point or
whenever at the time in university in
high school or you know whatever setting
you're in at some point you are gonna
fail and it's really part of the process
and yes everybody always tells you it is
normal to fail but we all know that when
we do fail we really hate it and today I
wanted to talk to you guys about how to
deal with that now before we get into it
I do just want to say that failure is
something that is proportional to how
much work you put in and the
expectations you put on yourself and I
think it's really important um that you
know if you feel like you failed at
something that you allow yourself to
feel that failure just because somebody
else would be really really happy about
a B+
if you worked three weeks in advance for
that test and you really wanted to get
an A then you are allowed to be
disappointed about a B+ and you are
allowed to feel like it's a failure and
I think that's something that's really
really important because often students
who you know do pretty well but then
they actually feel like they wanted to
do better feel like they can't really
you know feel bad about it because
everybody else would be really really
happy about it I know this is something
that happened to me a lot back when I
was in high school because I'm somebody
who puts very very high expectations on
herself and you know when I would get
something like for example a b-minus
I would be really really disappointed
and then I'd go home and my mom would be
like oh so how'd that test go
I'll be like I got a b-minus and mom
would be like girl like you know get a
reality check
and like on a rational level I didn't
know that a b-minus
you know wasn't bad but just in
proportion to the work that I put in it
actually was pretty bad so I do think
you know whether other people would be
happy about the grades or you know
whatever you're achieving or not it
doesn't matter because if you're not
happy with it then you know you're gonna
allow yourself to feel that in order to
get over it
so it's no solution to just say okay
someone else would be happy with what
I'm having so I should be happy
unfortunately it doesn't work that way
okay so now that we got that out of the
way let's actually get into how to
overcome academic failure when it
happens okay step one for getting over
is allow yourself to cry you know give
yourself some time and just let your
emotions out you know give yourself some
time to a bathe in your misery to say so
so webinars by crying screaming punching
a pillow
whatever is but you know really allow
yourself to feel these things you can't
get over it if you don't allow yourself
to feel it okay it's not normal to be
upset about something and you know not
show any emotion okay we are not built
like that so it's normal to just you
know have these like emotional hours of
minutes like however long it takes and
you know depending on how big a deal it
is give yourself about an hour to a few
days to you know just feel it and it's
really okay to be miserable for a bit
okay if you're disappointed about
something because you worked really
really hard for it and it just didn't
work out then you are allowed to be
upset so do actually feel these emotions
and you know babe in your misery for a
little bit because we all need to do
that and it can be quite comforting to
just you know have a good cry it sounds
silly but it actually helps like just
letting it out and I think it's really
important to do that because otherwise
you know you can't move on to the next
step because you actually need to have
felt that failure in order to then you
know deal with it and while you're in
this really emotional phase one thing
that I would recommend is to record
these moments you know you don't need to
record all of it but I would really
recommend recording and little bit of it
at least because I think it's really
really important to record your setbacks
in your failures because you can then
look back at them
the future and it kind of also puts
future setbacks into perspective
and it reminds you of all the things
that you have managed to get over and
that you know you've managed to grow out
of and I think that's really really
important and it's important to you know
remind yourself a few months down the
road look I thought the world was ending
that day but actually I got up the next
day and the next day after that and
three weeks from that and then it
actually really didn't matter anymore
you can do this by taking a video you
know just a couple seconds you know just
explaining to yourself this is what I'm
going for right now this is how I'm
feeling about it and that's it you know
or you know take a few pictures if
you're somebody who prefers to do that
or write it down in your diary you
whatever it is but recorded have a
record of it so that you know you can
look back at it because at some point
you're gonna fail again that's
inevitable okay but then you can look
back at all these other failures you
actually went through and honestly it's
really empowering to have these records
I have a few videos of me crying and
honestly I look at some of them today
and I'm like girl like this was no big
deal but honestly in that moment it
really was and although maybe today I
wouldn't cry about the same thing it's
still really important for me to see
that you know I thought this was such a
big deal and now I'm 19 and it really
doesn't matter anymore and I really
don't care but you know things like that
are gonna happen to you all the time and
just you know seeing that you got
through these things and that today they
really don't matter anymore
it really helps because when something
like it happens to you now you're like I
remember I went for something similar
but you know what I remember it and I
know it's not gonna matter five years
down the road so I'm not gonna waste my
time with it so that's why I would
really recommend keeping your record it
feels dumb to film yourself crying
because you look like crap
and you really don't want anyone else to
see that you know if you want to put it
in a password-protected folder but habit
have some record believe me you're gonna
thank me okay once you've given yourself
enough time to babe in your misery and
you've recorded your horrible emotions
now it's actually time to move on so
first step ask yourself why you failed
okay really ask ask what is it that made
me not be good enough and sometimes the
answer is going to be really not
satisfying because sometimes it's going
to be something that was out of your
control or there's just no way of
knowing a good example here is
University Admissions especially in the
u.s. because very often you just can't
know what was the factor that you know
made them not choose you but choose
someone else and very often you really
can't tell and there's somebody who went
through this process last year I can
tell you that when I got rejected from
my dream school I was like oh my god
like why I've put so much effort into my
application and you know I've worked
really really hard since I was in about
seventh grade because I wanted to get to
university like that and then I got
rejected and honestly it hurt a lot and
I was actually looking for a mistake you
know in my application or like in the
things I did why I wasn't good enough
and then I looked at all the other
applications and I just didn't feel good
about them anymore like even the school
I got into I was like yeah like I got
into this school but I didn't get into
my dream school this was a school that
mattered um and the irony is I actually
got into a better school like a more
competitive school but I couldn't really
appreciate that in that moment because I
was so focused on you know having gotten
rejected from my dream school and in all
honesty today I think that was really
really dumb because I wasn't very happy
about my achievement although I actually
had done pretty well like I mean I ended
up at a great University it wasn't a
university I plan to go to in all
honesty but honestly I ended up in a
great place but at that moment I felt
like I failed miserably and I couldn't
tell why and those are the things where
you're just gonna say well there was
something maybe there just was someone
better but you can't tell but you know
other times you will be able to tell why
you failed for example if you really
wanted that a in a math test but you
only put 10 hours of work into it you
probably didn't want it badly enough
because you probably didn't work hard
enough for it for some people they
an hour for math and you'll be fine okay
but our people you know they need more
time and if you weren't realistic about
how much time you need then that is
something you've learned so you're not
gonna make that mistake again because
very often we can actually improve or
you know maybe you got rejected and then
you can look back at your application
and be like okay maybe I could have
worked harder in this subject so I'm
gonna take this as a lesson and you know
next time I really want something I'm
gonna work a little bit harder in the
things that I'm not as good in and you
know things like that sometimes we can't
improve and sometimes we can realize why
something may not have worked out and we
can take it as a lesson to just you know
improve ourselves those opportunities
that we wanted they may not come around
again but other opportunities are gonna
come around so we can still take lessons
from these and you know improve so that
when there is a new thing that we want
we are better and we are in a better
position to get it now once you know why
you failed then actually make a plan to
not fail like that again okay so if you
know this was the reason this fing
didn't work out then make a plan to do
better a good example here is once again
University Admissions now in the UK and
when you apply to universities you get a
conditional offer and it is conditional
on your a level results and every year
quite a few students mister conditional
offers and I can understand that it can
be really really disappointing if you
don't get into the university you want
to go to now luckily in the UK there is
a backup system so you can have an
insurance choice in case it doesn't work
out with your first choice and you know
then you may end up going to this safety
school which you didn't really want to
go to because it just didn't work out
with your grades and you know now you
have a choice you can either spend the
next three years being miserable and you
know thinking oh my god I really don't
want to be here or you can spend the
next three years making the best of it
getting better grades than you did in
ailable and then getting into a great
grad school or getting the job you
really want whatever it is you know it's
your choice what you make out of it so
if you realize okay maybe I didn't work
hard enough and a-levels to get what I
want back then but I can work hard
enough now in university to get what I
want
the University and that's why I think
it's really important to reflect on why
you failed and to then use that to make
a plan and then follow that plan because
then you'll make sure that you won't
fail like that again because the thing
that's even more annoying than just
failing is failing for the same reason
for which you fail another time because
you already knew that you had to improve
this and you just didn't do anything
about it and yeah that's really my
strategy for dealing with academic
failure because when you follow that
plan you know at some point you're gonna
wake up and you're not gonna think about
that time you failed anymore you know
and when somebody mentions it at that
point it's just not gonna hurt anymore
and that can take a few days or maybe
just a few hours but it can also take
years for some people depending on you
know what it is and how much it meant to
you and it's absolutely fine to take
your time to get over it but I think a
great way to do it is to make a plan to
actually you know have something in
place to then you know at least learn
from that failure so yeah I hope you
guys found this video helpful and thank
you guys so much for watching have a
nice day bye